---
title: 'Creating Remote Connections: Home Computer to Campus Intranet via Cloud'
date: 2023-09-29
permalink: /posts/2023/09/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - reverse ssh
---

This guide explains how to set up remote connections from a computer on public Wi-Fi to a campus intranet server using a cloud computer, including SSH key generation, autossh installation, and automated service configuration.

# Tutorial: Reverse SSH - Home Computer Connecting to Campus Intranet Server

This comprehensive guide provides step-by-step instructions on establishing remote connections for a computer connected to a public Wi-Fi network. The connections will be orchestrated through the use of a cloud-based computer, such as Amazon Cloud.

## Terminology
- **A:** Refers to the computer connected to public Wi-Fi.
- **B:** Designates the cloud computer.
- **C:** Represents the laptop at home.

### Setting Up the Connection from A to B:

1. **Generate an SSH Key Pair:** Begin by creating an SSH key pair on computer A to facilitate passwordless login to computer B. Execute the following command:
   ```bash
   ssh-keygen -t rsa # Press Enter for all prompts. The generated id_rsa.pub file will be located in the ~/.ssh/ directory.
   ```

2. **Copy Public Key:** Copy the public key from computer A to computer B using this command:
   ```bash
   ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub ubuntu@666.666.666.666 -p 22
   ```

3. **Install Autossh:** Install `autossh` to guarantee automatic reconnection in the event of a disruption in the reverse SSH connection between A and B:
   ```bash
   apt-get install autossh
   ```

4. **Test Connection:** Verify the success of the `autossh` + passwordless login setup by running the following command:
   ```bash
   autossh -M 9991 -NfR 8990:localhost:22 ubuntu@666.666.666.666
   ```
   If the command on computer A runs successfully, and on computer B, you observe the port numbers in the red box when executing the command `watch -n 1 netstat -tnlp`, then the test is successful.

### Configuring the Autossh Service:

5. **Automate Autossh Startup:** Automate the startup of `autossh` when computer A is powered on. Begin by creating an `autossh.service` file:
   ```bash
   vim /lib/systemd/system/autossh.service
   ```

   Insert the following content into the `autossh.service` file:
   ```ini
   [Unit]
   Description=Auto SSH Tunnel
   After=network-online.target

   [Service]
   User=YOUR_USER_NAME
   Type=simple
   ExecStart=/usr/bin/autossh -NR 9888:localhost:22 -i /home/YOUR_USER_NAME/.ssh/id_rsa ubuntu@666.666.666.666 -p 22 >> /dev/null 2>&1
   ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
   ExecStop=/bin/kill -TERM $MAINPID
   KillMode=process
   Restart=no

   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target
   WantedBy=graphical.target
   ```

6. **Verify Configuration:** Check if the `autossh` service is successfully configured:
   ```bash
   systemctl enable autossh
   systemctl start autossh
   ```

   Confirm the service's status:
   ```bash
   systemctl status autossh
   ```
   If the service starts successfully, when running the command `watch -n 1 netstat -tnlp` on computer B, you should see the port numbers in the red box.

### Connection from C to A:

To establish a connection from laptop C to computer A through computer B:

1. **Connect to Computer B:** Initiate an SSH connection to computer B using the following command:
   ```bash
   ssh -p 9888 ubuntu@666.666.666.666
   ```

2. **Access Computer A:** Open another terminal tab and connect to computer A:
   ```bash
   ssh -p 9888 YOUR_USER_NAME@127.0.0.1
   ```
   
   You should now have a remote connection from laptop C to computer A via computer B, enabling seamless access to your campus intranet server.
